procedures: Migration to devworkspace engine (#2159)
codenvy/che-docs: modules/administration-guide/partials/proc_migration_olm_stable_channel_to_stable_all_namespace.adoc

[id="migration-olm-stable-channel-to-stable-all-namespace_{context}"]
= Migration {prod} from "che-server" workspace engine to "dev-workspace" using OLM 

For {prod} instances installed using Operator lifecycle manager(OLM) with "stable" channel
there is opportunity to make migration with new channel "tech-preview-stable-all-namespaces".
"stable" OLM channel provides {prod} with old "che-server" engine.
This engine is not under active development any more.

> "tech-preview-stable-all-namespaces" channel provides {prod-short} with modern "dev-workspace" engine.

Reviewer: I'm not sure if the official engine naming is `dev-workspace`. In any case we need a link to the new engine documentation

> "tech-preview-stable-all-namespaces" channel provides {prod-short} with modern "dev-workspace" engine.

Author: ```suggestion
"tech-preview-stable-all-namespaces" channel provides {prod-short} with modern {devworkspace} engine.
```

> > Warning: Migration process is not back compatible. All previously created workspaces will be

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> Warning: The migration process is not backward compatible. All previously created workspaces will be
```

> > Warning: Migration process is not back compatible. All previously created workspaces will be

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> Warning: The migration process is not backward compatible. All previously created workspaces will be
```

not working any more after migration. Before this procedure all users should be notified to save their source code
changes to prevent losing data.

.Prerequisites

* The `{orch-cli}` tool is available.
* An instance of {prod-short} running in Openshift 4 cluster.

.Procedure

Scale {prod-deployment} deployment to zero to stop users interaction with this service:

[subs="+quotes,+attributes"]
----
{orch-cli} scale deployment {prod-deployment} --replicas=0 -n {prod-namespace}
----

If you have enabled Openshift OAuth you have to migrate existed users. This migration is required to reuse existed Openshift users with "dev-workspace" native authentication mode.

> Warning: If your {prod} instance didn't use OAuth, then you can't migrate users.
There is no mechanism to migrate native Keycloak users to Openshift users.

## Migrate Openshift OAuth users

Create {prod} backup using the xref:managing-backups-using-chectl.adoc[] or che-operator itself xref:managing-backups-using-custom-resources.adoc[].

Create migration script MigrateUsers.sh:

[subs="+quotes,+attributes"]
----
$ touch MigrateUsers.sh && chmod +x MigrateUsers.sh
----

> MigrateUsers.sh script content

Reviewer: wondering if we need to store the script in the repo somewhere

Reviewer 2: It is better to store script in docs since it automatically replace some values on downstream specific
